---
id: cf6c8291-ceef-497c-acfc-bc665b52b22d
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'From Coding to Coaching: Reflections on Leading a Dev Team'
author:
  - 5761106b-2220-429b-b49a-5e42cc8df619
updated_by: 5761106b-2220-429b-b49a-5e42cc8df619
updated_at: 1680369388
---
One Friday afternoon, 3 months into my new job, I got invited into a meeting with my COO and head of HR. This wasn't too surprising - it was the end of probation period, so I was expecting a meeting to discuss how it went and whether or not they wanted to keep working with me. To my complete surprise, however, the meeting was actually to discuss whether I'd be interested in managing the development team that I had just joined! 

I was not at all prepared for this. Imposter symptom kicked in hard. My teammates were amazing developers, all of whom were older and more experienced than I was. How was I supposed to be their manager? 

I can't remember much about the meeting, but I do remember thanking them for thinking of me and asking if I could have the upcoming long weekend to think about the decision. 

**TODO**: _add section here about how I felt over that weekend and why I ultimately decided to take the job. _

I viewed this role as an entirely new career path. My technical skills would not be enough, I needed to learn how to work with people. To do so, I initially approached this the same way I learned how to write code: consume as much learning material as I could, as fast as I could. To some degree, this actually did help a bit. I started to understand that it didn't matter as much that I was the least experienced developer on the team - my role was to remove obstacles, encourage and motivate them, and help shield them from admin and politics so they can focus on doing what they do best. My own personal abilities as a developer was not critical to my success in this role.